Things to help you make sense of project
========================================================

In the EMS/crossing experiment used for NGM, the non-recombinant region of the genome where the causative SNP is mutated is a different size in each F2, due to the random nature of recombination. However, SNPs that are genetically/physically close to the causative SNP are always more likely to be within the region, than those further away.

The principle is the same for the crossing experiment that would create my model genome, only instead of multiple F2 progeny, we are repeatedly back-crossing to the non-mutant parent. This means that the SNPs far from the causative get eliminated by recombination with the no SNPs parent line, and the normal distribution is formed because the closer a SNP is to the causative SNP, the more likely it is conserved by linkage.

NGM
---

Pooled genomic DNA from multiple F2 lines should largely consist of an equal mixture of both the mutant and mapping parental genomes (e.g. ecotypes Col-0 and Ler, respectively). However, F2 individuals exhibiting the recessive mutant phenotype will be homozygous for the mutant genome in the region surrounding the underlying causative mutation due to the genetic linkage of flanking regions with the recessive mutation of interest. The extent of the resulting linkage disequilibrium between the selected polymorphism and flanking neutral polymorphisms **(and as such, the shape of the normal distribution)** depends on the distance from the selected site, the strength of selection, and the rate of recombination. In the context of a mapping population, selection is maximized, as only lines with homozygous recessive mutations are artificially selected, and the rate of recombination is proportional to the number of F2 lines selected.

The chastity statistic: for the pooled samples, a ‘discordant chastity’ statistic (ChD) of approximately zero would be expected at all genomic positions where the reference base is observed. AChD value of approximately 0.5 is expected at all genomic positions that vary between, and have equal representation from, the mutant and mapping parental genotypes. Finally, a ChD value of approximately 1.0 is expected for all positions that are homozygous for a base that differs from the reference (Col-0) genome. The non-recombinant SNP desert flanking the causative mutation will, by definition, have very few sites with discordant chastity scores near 0.5, and any SNP in this region with a ChD value of approximately 1.0 may represent the actual causal mutation of interest (could also be a silent EMS-induced mutation carried along due to linkage with the causative mutation, or a difference between the mutant line and the published genome sequence). Consequently, can identify the region of interest by simply scanning for a genomic block that is deficient in discordant chastity values of approximately 0.5 and enriched in discordant chastity values of approximately 1.0 **(this is to narrow down the area of the genome from within the already identified SNP desert)**.