14/11/13
========================================================

Fragmented Genome:
---------

### Today

1. Made [super scatter](https://github.com/edwardchalstrey1/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/arabidopsis_datasets/dataset6/figures/genome_kdens_snps.png) that uses kernel density estimate for entire original order: where n makes the sections of the graph equivalent to the sub graphs.

2. Made graphs of the other kind of [super scatter excluding threshold](https://github.com/edwardchalstrey1/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/arabidopsis_datasets/dataset6/figures/skew_scatter_abs_thresh.png)

2. Sorted out [random_vector_Rcode, now called bar_graph_scores](https://github.com/edwardchalstrey1/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/bar_graph_scores.R) for dataset 6, so you can include [barplot](https://github.com/edwardchalstrey1/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/arabidopsis_datasets/dataset6/figures/rearrangement_methods.png) of scores in writeup

### Next

3. Write up plots for dataset 6, comparing d6 and d2 original order plots
 - Write up rearrangement methods for the **average scores** of multiple datasets for each method. For a few datasets. But figures from d6?

6. Write up your findings from the super scatter graph
 - Need to make it clear in writeup that for the super scatter, the fragments on axis in original order, but excluding fragments < 6 SNPs
 - Compare figures of K density estimate to SNPs per Kb (d_o)
 - Remember the example gradient graphs are for frags with 6+ SNPS only. could this be a problem?
 - [super scatter](https://github.com/edwardchalstrey1/fragmented_genome_with_snps/blob/master/arabidopsis_datasets/dataset6/figures/genome_kdens_snps.png) is all SNPs on genome, but only goes up to highest SNP

### Later on

1. Make an improved skew method, if it looks like the skew is a good idea

2. Make a linear programming rearrangement method

3. Way down the line: test different midpoints for your rearranged distribution to be around; this could be after you already have a rearrangement method that works when we know the midpoint is in the middle. Write a method that uses that rearrangement method multiple times, with different midpoints, to find the best one, and therefore estimate the mutant position.

4. Eventually you will need to modify density_method_testa.rb to work with any ARGV file, and of course the file containing the rearrangement/mutation locating algorithm, saving the files in an appropriate location

Literature Review
-------

- Read papers on the topics Dan has suggested

- Write appropriate sections, focusing on genetics as much as bioinformatics
